docs/01_quick_start/01_hydration.md, before:

---
title: What is Hydration?
sidebar_position: 0
---

Hydration is a next-gen DeFi protocol built on Polkadot. Its mission is to **make DeFi efficient, simple, and unstoppable**. To achieve this, Hydration **unites swaps, lending and a stablecoin currency** under the roof of a single, scalable appchain.

**The Omnipool lies at the heart of trading on Hydration**. It is an innovative Automated Market Maker (AMM) that combines all assets in a single trading pool, unlocking unparalleled efficiencies. By eliminating liquidity fragmentation, the Omnipool enables lower slippage and fewer hops, resulting in capital efficiency gains for traders.

The Omnipool supports single-sided liquidity provisioning, allowing anyone to provide liquidity for the asset they want, while the Omnipool handles the rest. Liquidity providers (LPs) gain instant exposure to all other assets in the pool. In the early phases, providing liquidity for selected assets is incentivized by Hydrated Farms, offering additional rewards on top of trading fees.

Hydration prioritizes security, with multiple audits, a generous bug bounty program, and cutting-edge mechanisms like liquidity caps, protocol fees, and circuit breakers to keep liquidity safe. The protocol also addresses impermanent loss (IL) through non-inflationary measures, ensuring LPs experience less IL when providing liquidity to the Omnipool.

Stay hydrated, not liquidated.

Commit message:

general docs update v1
- revamped 'What is Hydration?' page
- added borrow guides to 'Quick Start'
- revamped 'hydrated farms' into 'fees and rewards' under products > liquidity
- added user guide for 'create a meme coin'
- revamped 'provide liquidity' user guide
- added 'remove liquidity' user guide
- changed title of 'participate in LBP' user guide to 'buy bonds'

docs/01_quick_start/01_hydration.md, after:

---
title: What is Hydration?
sidebar_position: 0
---

Hydration is a next-gen DeFi protocol built on Polkadot. Its mission is to make DeFi efficient, simple, and unstoppable. To achieve this, Hydration unites swaps, lending and a stablecoin currency under the roof of a single, scalable appchain.

At the heart of Hydration lies the innovative **[Omnipool](docs/02_products/01_trading/01_pools/01_omnipool/01_omnipool.md)**, an Automated Market Maker (AMM) that fundamentally changes how liquidity works in DeFi. Rather than fragmenting liquidity across countless trading pairs, the Omnipool combines all assets into a single trading pool, enabling lower slippage, fewer hops between trades, and unprecedented capital efficiency gains. This breakthrough design also introduces **[1-sided liquidity provisioning](docs/02_products/01_trading/03_liquidity/01_single_sided_lp.md),** making it easier than ever for users to participate in market making.

Beyond the Omnipool, Hydration offers a comprehensive suite of DeFi tools including specialized stablepools, lending platforms, and **[advanced trading features](/products/trading/pro)** like yield and trade DCA. The protocol also caters to unique market needs through **Memepad**, a tool for creating meme coins without coding knowledge, and sophisticated **[DAO treasury management solutions](/daos)**, as demonstrated by the Polkadot DAO's $2 million stablecoin acquisition through Hydration.

Security and user experience form the bedrock of Hydration's design philosophy. The protocol combines multiple security audits, a generous bug bounty program, and sophisticated protection mechanisms with one of DeFi's most intuitive interfaces. By prioritizing organic revenue distribution without relying on new token mints, Hydration ensures long-term sustainability while making complex DeFi operations accessible to all users.

Stay hydrated, not liquidated.
