docs/03_guides/05_borrow/01_supply_assets.md, before:

---
title: Supply Assets
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

This guide covers:

- [How to supply assets](#supply)
- [How to withdraw supplied assets](#withdraw)

You can also check out our [Borrowing product docs](/products/borrowing/overview).

## How to Supply Assets for Supplying {#supply}

### 01 Access the Supply UI

- Open the Hydration platform and go to the **[Supply UI](https://app.hydration.net/borrow/dashboard)**.
- This will open **My Dashboards** where you can view your lending and borrowing options.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/01.png')} />
</div>

### 02 Choose an Asset to Supply

- In the dashboard, navigate to the **Assets to Supply** section.
- Locate the asset you want to supply and click the **Supply** button next to it.
  - **Tip:** You can click anywhere outside the "Supply" button to reveal more details about the asset, such as:
    - **Max LTV (Loan-To-Value)** - The maximum amount you can borrow against this asset.
    - **Liquidation Threshold** - The point at which your supplied asset becomes subject to liquidation.
    - **Liquidation Penalty** - The cost of having the asset liquidated.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/02.png')} width="600px" />
</div>

### 03 Supply the Asset

- In the **Supply Asset** dialog box, enter the amount you wish to supply.
- Review the information, and when ready, sign the transaction to confirm.


<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/03.png')} width="600px" />
</div>

### 04 Confirmation

- **Congratulations!** You’ve successfully supplied an asset and signed the contract.

Now, you can start earning based on your supplied assets! For more details on managing your supply, visit **My Dashboards** anytime.

## How to Withdraw Supplied Tokens {#withdraw}

Once you've supplied tokens, you can withdraw them anytime by following these steps:

### 01 Locate Your Supplied Tokens

- Go to the **My Dashboards** section on the Hydration platform.
- Scroll to the **Your Supplies** section, where you’ll see all the tokens you’ve supplied

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/04.png')} width="600px" />
</div>

### 02 Initiate the Withdrawal

- Find the asset you want to withdraw and click the **Withdraw** button next to it.

### 03 Specify the Amount

- In the **Withdraw Asset** dialog box, enter the amount you wish to withdraw.
- Review the details to make sure everything is correct.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/05.png')} width="600px" />
</div>

### 04 Confirm the Transaction

- Sign the transaction to confirm your withdrawal.

**Congratulations!** You have successfully withdrawn your supplied tokens.

Commit message:

add description to supply and borrow

docs/03_guides/05_borrow/01_supply_assets.md, after:

---
title: Supply Assets
description: Learn how to Lend your assets and earn APR
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

This guide covers:

- [How to supply assets](#supply)
- [How to withdraw supplied assets](#withdraw)

You can also check out our [Borrowing product docs](/products/borrowing/overview).

## How to Supply Assets for Supplying {#supply}

### 01 Access the Supply UI

- Open the Hydration platform and go to the **[Supply UI](https://app.hydration.net/borrow/dashboard)**.
- This will open **My Dashboards** where you can view your lending and borrowing options.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/01.png')} />
</div>

### 02 Choose an Asset to Supply

- In the dashboard, navigate to the **Assets to Supply** section.
- Locate the asset you want to supply and click the **Supply** button next to it.
  - **Tip:** You can click anywhere outside the "Supply" button to reveal more details about the asset, such as:
    - **Max LTV (Loan-To-Value)** - The maximum amount you can borrow against this asset.
    - **Liquidation Threshold** - The point at which your supplied asset becomes subject to liquidation.
    - **Liquidation Penalty** - The cost of having the asset liquidated.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/02.png')} width="600px" />
</div>

### 03 Supply the Asset

- In the **Supply Asset** dialog box, enter the amount you wish to supply.
- Review the information, and when ready, sign the transaction to confirm.


<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/03.png')} width="600px" />
</div>

### 04 Confirmation

- **Congratulations!** You’ve successfully supplied an asset and signed the contract.

Now, you can start earning based on your supplied assets! For more details on managing your supply, visit **My Dashboards** anytime.

## How to Withdraw Supplied Tokens {#withdraw}

Once you've supplied tokens, you can withdraw them anytime by following these steps:

### 01 Locate Your Supplied Tokens

- Go to the **My Dashboards** section on the Hydration platform.
- Scroll to the **Your Supplies** section, where you’ll see all the tokens you’ve supplied

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/04.png')} width="600px" />
</div>

### 02 Initiate the Withdrawal

- Find the asset you want to withdraw and click the **Withdraw** button next to it.

### 03 Specify the Amount

- In the **Withdraw Asset** dialog box, enter the amount you wish to withdraw.
- Review the details to make sure everything is correct.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
  <img alt="metadata" src={useBaseUrl('/img/guides/borrow/supply/05.png')} width="600px" />
</div>

### 04 Confirm the Transaction

- Sign the transaction to confirm your withdrawal.

**Congratulations!** You have successfully withdrawn your supplied tokens.
