docs/run_hydradx_collator.md, before:

---
id: run-collator
title: Run your own collator
---

This is a step-by-step how-to so you can get your HydraDX collator up and running. In this guide, we use Ubuntu 20.04 LTS

## Create a technical `hydra` user and add it to Sudoers

```bash
sudo adduser hydra
sudo usermod -aG sudo hydra
su - hydra
```

## Download and configure the `hydradx` binary

Pick a 12.x release, we are using `v12.1.0` from our assets repository:

```bash
wget https://github.com/galacticcouncil/HydraDX-node/releases/download/v12.1.0/hydradx
sudo mv hydradx /usr/local/bin
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/hydradx
sudo chown hydra:hydra /usr/local/bin/hydradx

```

## Command to run your collator

Best is to run your collator as a `service` using `systemctl`. To do so, create a file, namely `hydradx-collator.service` under `/etc/systemd/system/hydradx-collator.service`:

```bash
sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/hydradx-collator.service
```

Then paste the following:

```bash
[Unit]
Description=hydradx validator
[Service]
Type=exec
User=hydra
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/hydradx \
    --name YOUR_COLLATOR_NAME \
    --prometheus-external
    --collator \
    -- \
    --execution wasm \
    --telemetry-url "wss://telemetry.hydradx.io:9000/submit/ 0" \
    --base-path /var/lib/hydradx
    
Restart=always
RestartSec=120
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Before starting your node, let's create the base-path folder and give it the necessary permissions and ownership:

```bash
mkdir /var/lib/hydradx
chown hydra:hydra /var/lib/hydradx
```

/!\ Make sure you have enough volume for your `base-path` by using `df -h`command.

Note that `--prometheus-external` is optional, but we highly recommend it so you can be able to export prometheus metrics and monitor your node's health through Grafana. For more details about monitoring, please visit [this link](https://docs.hydradx.io/node_monitoring/).

If you need to monitor both the `parachain` and `relaychain` metrics, `--prometheus-external`option should be setup in both parts. You also need to set a separate port for the relaychain part as follows: `--prometheus-port YOUR_CUSTOM_PORT_NUMBER`.

Depending on your setup, you might also want to override certain parameters like the websocket, rpc or your node p2p port. Please use `hydradx --help` for more information about the available options.

After saving your file, run the following commands to start your node:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable hydradx-collator
sudo systemctl start hydradx-collator.service
```

And voilà ! Your node should be up and running now. Make sure your `hydra` user has the necessary permissions to access your `base-path` and key file.

If you need to troubleshoot your running service, you can use the `journalctl` with `-f` option for tailing command as follows:

```bash
journalctl -fu hydradx-collator
```

## Generate your session key!

In order to generate keys for your node, run the following command:

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id":1, "jsonrpc":"2.0", "method": "author_rotateKeys", "params":[]}' http://localhost:9933
```

Once done, you will have an output similar to::

```json
{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":"0x9257c7a88f94f858a6f477743b4180f0c9a0630a1cea85c3f47dc6ca78e503767089bebe02b18765232ecd67b35a7fb18fc3027613840f27aca5a5cc300775391cf298af0f0e0342d0d0d873b1ec703009c6816a471c64b5394267c6fc583c31884ac83d9fed55d5379bbe1579601872ccc577ad044dd449848da1f830dd3e45","id":1}
```

## Set your session key!

To associate the generated session keys with your Controller account, navigate to the following menu item in the Polkadot/apps: *Developer* > *Extrinsics*.

Fill in the fields:

- *using selected account*: select your Controller account;
- *submit the following extrinsic*: select `session` on the left side and `setKeys` on the right;
- *keys*: enter your session key you just generated;
- *proof*: `0`;

## What's next?

Make sure that your node is fully synced. Once done, let us know, and we will add your node to the collator set.

Commit message:

base path defined for both relay and para

docs/run_hydradx_collator.md, after:

---
id: run-collator
title: Run your own collator
---

This is a step-by-step how-to so you can get your HydraDX collator up and running. In this guide, we use Ubuntu 20.04 LTS

## Create a technical `hydra` user and add it to Sudoers

```bash
sudo adduser hydra
sudo usermod -aG sudo hydra
su - hydra
```

## Download and configure the `hydradx` binary

Pick a 12.x release, we are using `v12.1.0` from our assets repository:

```bash
wget https://github.com/galacticcouncil/HydraDX-node/releases/download/v12.1.0/hydradx
sudo mv hydradx /usr/local/bin
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/hydradx
sudo chown hydra:hydra /usr/local/bin/hydradx

```

## Command to run your collator

Best is to run your collator as a `service` using `systemctl`. To do so, create a file, namely `hydradx-collator.service` under `/etc/systemd/system/hydradx-collator.service`:

```bash
sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/hydradx-collator.service
```

Then paste the following:

```bash
[Unit]
Description=hydradx validator
[Service]
Type=exec
User=hydra
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/hydradx \
    --name YOUR_COLLATOR_NAME \
    --prometheus-external \
    --base-path /var/lib/hydradx \
    --collator \
    -- \
    --execution wasm \
    --telemetry-url "wss://telemetry.hydradx.io:9000/submit/ 0" \
    --base-path /var/lib/hydradx
    
Restart=always
RestartSec=120
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Before starting your node, let's create the base-path folder and give it the necessary permissions and ownership:

```bash
mkdir /var/lib/hydradx
chown hydra:hydra /var/lib/hydradx
```

/!\ Make sure you have enough volume for your `base-path` by using `df -h`command.

Note that `--prometheus-external` is optional, but we highly recommend it so you can be able to export prometheus metrics and monitor your node's health through Grafana. For more details about monitoring, please visit [this link](https://docs.hydradx.io/node_monitoring/).

If you need to monitor both the `parachain` and `relaychain` metrics, `--prometheus-external`option should be setup in both parts. You also need to set a separate port for the relaychain part as follows: `--prometheus-port YOUR_CUSTOM_PORT_NUMBER`

Depending on your setup, you might also want to override certain parameters like the websocket, rpc or your node p2p port. Please use `hydradx --help` for more information about the available options.

After saving your file, run the following commands to start your node:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable hydradx-collator
sudo systemctl start hydradx-collator.service
```

And voilà ! Your node should be up and running now. Make sure your `hydra` user has the necessary permissions to access your `base-path` and key file.

If you need to troubleshoot your running service, you can use the `journalctl` with `-f` option for tailing command as follows:

```bash
journalctl -fu hydradx-collator
```

## Generate your session key!

In order to generate keys for your node, run the following command:

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id":1, "jsonrpc":"2.0", "method": "author_rotateKeys", "params":[]}' http://localhost:9933
```

Once done, you will have an output similar to::

```json
{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":"0x9257c7a88f94f858a6f477743b4180f0c9a0630a1cea85c3f47dc6ca78e503767089bebe02b18765232ecd67b35a7fb18fc3027613840f27aca5a5cc300775391cf298af0f0e0342d0d0d873b1ec703009c6816a471c64b5394267c6fc583c31884ac83d9fed55d5379bbe1579601872ccc577ad044dd449848da1f830dd3e45","id":1}
```

## Set your session key!

To associate the generated session keys with your Controller account, navigate to the following menu item in the Polkadot/apps: *Developer* > *Extrinsics*.

Fill in the fields:

- *using selected account*: select your Controller account;
- *submit the following extrinsic*: select `session` on the left side and `setKeys` on the right;
- *keys*: enter your session key you just generated;
- *proof*: `0`;

## What's next?

Make sure that your node is fully synced. Once done, let us know, and we will add your node to the collator set.
